The Most Dangerous Game.

by Richard Connell (1893-1949)

"OFF THERE to the right--somewhere--is a large island," said Whitney."
It's rather a mystery--"

"What island is it?" Rainsford asked.

"The old charts call it `Ship-Trap Island,"' Whitney replied." A
suggestive name, isn't it? Sailors have a curious dread of the place. I
don't know why. Some superstition--"

"Can't see it," remarked Rainsford, trying to peer through the dank
tropical night that was palpable as it pressed its thick warm blackness
in upon the yacht.

"You've good eyes," said Whitney, with a laugh," and I've seen you pick
off a moose moving in the brown fall bush at four hundred yards, but
even you can't see four miles or so through a moonless Caribbean night."

"Nor four yards," admitted Rainsford. "Ugh! It's like moist black velvet."

"It will be light enough in Rio," promised Whitney. "We should make it
in a few days. I hope the jaguar guns have come from Purdey's. We should
have some good hunting up the Amazon. Great sport, hunting."

"The best sport in the world," agreed Rainsford.

"For the hunter," amended Whitney. "Not for the jaguar."

"Don't talk rot, Whitney," said Rainsford. "You're a big-game hunter,
not a philosopher. Who cares how a jaguar feels?"

"Perhaps the jaguar does," observed Whitney.

"Bah! They've no understanding."

"Even so, I rather think they understand one thing--fear. The fear of
pain and the fear of death."

"Nonsense," laughed Rainsford. "This hot weather is making you soft,
Whitney. Be a realist. The world is made up of two classes--the hunters
and the huntees. Luckily, you and I are hunters. Do you think we've
passed that island yet?"

"I can't tell in the dark. I hope so."

"Why? " asked Rainsford.

"The place has a reputation--a bad one."

"Cannibals?" suggested Rainsford.

"Hardly. Even cannibals wouldn't live in such a God-forsaken place. But
it's gotten into sailor lore, somehow. Didn't you notice that the crew's
nerves seemed a bit jumpy today?"

"They were a bit strange, now you mention it. Even Captain Nielsen--"

"Yes, even that tough-minded old Swede, who'd go up to the devil himself
and ask him for a light. Those fishy blue eyes held a look I never saw
there before. All I could get out of him was `This place has an evil
name among seafaring men, sir.' Then he said to me, very gravely, `Don't
you feel anything?'--as if the air about us was actually poisonous. Now,
you mustn't laugh when I tell you this--I did feel something like a
sudden chill.

"There was no breeze. The sea was as flat as a plate-glass window. We
were drawing near the island then. What I felt was a--a mental chill; a
sort of sudden dread."

"Pure imagination," said Rainsford.

"One superstitious sailor can taint the whole ship's company with his fear."

"Maybe. But sometimes I think sailors have an extra sense that tells
them when they are in danger. Sometimes I think evil is a tangible
thing--with wave lengths, just as sound and light have. An evil place
can, so to speak, broadcast vibrations of evil. Anyhow, I'm glad we're
getting out of this zone. Well, I think I'll turn in now, Rainsford."

"I'm not sleepy," said Rainsford. "I'm going to smoke another pipe up on
the afterdeck."

"Good night, then, Rainsford. See you at breakfast."

"Right. Good night, Whitney."

There was no sound in the night as Rainsford sat there but the muffled
throb of the engine that drove the yacht swiftly through the darkness,
and the swish and ripple of the wash of the propeller.

Rainsford, reclining in a steamer chair, indolently puffed on his
favorite brier. The sensuous drowsiness of the night was on him." It's
so dark," he thought, "that I could sleep without closing my eyes; the
night would be my eyelids--"

An abrupt sound startled him. Off to the right he heard it, and his
ears, expert in such matters, could not be mistaken. Again he heard the
sound, and again. Somewhere, off in the blackness, someone had fired a
gun three times.

Rainsford sprang up and moved quickly to the rail, mystified. He
strained his eyes in the direction from which the reports had come, but
it was like trying to see through a blanket. He leaped upon the rail and
balanced himself there, to get greater elevation; his pipe, striking a
rope, was knocked from his mouth. He lunged for it; a short, hoarse cry
came from his lips as he realized he had reached too far and had lost
his balance. The cry was pinched off short as the blood-warm waters of
the Caribbean Sea dosed over his head.

He struggled up to the surface and tried to cry out, but the wash from
the speeding yacht slapped him in the face and the salt water in his
open mouth made him gag and strangle. Desperately he struck out with
strong strokes after the receding lights of the yacht, but he stopped
before he had swum fifty feet. A certain coolheadedness had come to him;
it was not the first time he had been in a tight place. There was a
chance that his cries could be heard by someone aboard the yacht, but
that chance was slender and grew more slender as the yacht raced on. He
wrestled himself out of his clothes and shouted with all his power. The
lights of the yacht became faint and ever-vanishing fireflies; then they
were blotted out entirely by the night.

Rainsford remembered the shots. They had come from the right, and
doggedly he swam in that direction, swimming with slow, deliberate
strokes, conserving his strength. For a seemingly endless time he fought
the sea. He began to count his strokes; he could do possibly a hundred
more and then--

Rainsford heard a sound. It came out of the darkness, a high screaming
sound, the sound of an animal in an extremity of anguish and terror.

He did not recognize the animal that made the sound; he did not try to;
with fresh vitality he swam toward the sound. He heard it again; then it
was cut short by another noise, crisp, staccato.

"Pistol shot," muttered Rainsford, swimming on.

Ten minutes of determined effort brought another sound to his ears--the
most welcome he had ever heard--the muttering and growling of the sea
breaking on a rocky shore. He was almost on the rocks before he saw
them; on a night less calm he would have been shattered against them.
With his remaining strength he dragged himself from the swirling waters.
Jagged crags appeared to jut up into the opaqueness; he forced himself
upward, hand over hand. Gasping, his hands raw, he reached a flat place
at the top. Dense jungle came down to the very edge of the cliffs. What
perils that tangle of trees and underbrush might hold for him did not
concern Rainsford just then. All he knew was that he was safe from his
enemy, the sea, and that utter weariness was on him. He flung himself
down at the jungle edge and tumbled headlong into the deepest sleep of
his life.

When he opened his eyes he knew from the position of the sun that it was
late in the afternoon. Sleep had given him new vigor; a sharp hunger was
picking at him. He looked about him, almost cheerfully.

"Where there are pistol shots, there are men. Where there are men, there
is food," he thought. But what kind of men, he wondered, in so
forbidding a place? An unbroken front of snarled and ragged jungle
fringed the shore.

He saw no sign of a trail through the closely knit web of weeds and
trees; it was easier to go along the shore, and Rainsford floundered
along by the water. Not far from where he landed, he stopped.

Some wounded thing--by the evidence, a large animal--had thrashed about
in the underbrush; the jungle weeds were crushed down and the moss was
lacerated; one patch of weeds was stained crimson. A small, glittering
object not far away caught Rainsford's eye and he picked it up. It was
an empty cartridge.

"A twenty-two," he remarked. "That's odd. It must have been a fairly
large animal too. The hunter had his nerve with him to tackle it with a
light gun. It's clear that the brute put up a fight. I suppose the first
three shots I heard was when the hunter flushed his quarry and wounded
it. The last shot was when he trailed it here and finished it."

He examined the ground closely and found what he had hoped to find--the
print of hunting boots. They pointed along the cliff in the direction he
had been going. Eagerly he hurried along, now slipping on a rotten log
or a loose stone, but making headway; night was beginning to settle down
on the island.

Bleak darkness was blacking out the sea and jungle when Rainsford
sighted the lights. He came upon them as he turned a crook in the coast
line; and his first thought was that be had come upon a village, for
there were many lights. But as he forged along he saw to his great
astonishment that all the lights were in one enormous building--a lofty
structure with pointed towers plunging upward into the gloom. His eyes
made out the shadowy outlines of a palatial chateau; it was set on a
high bluff, and on three sides of it cliffs dived down to where the sea
licked greedy lips in the shadows. 

"Mirage," thought Rainsford. But it was no mirage, he found, when he
opened the tall spiked iron gate. The stone steps were real enough; the
massive door with a leering gargoyle for a knocker was real enough; yet
above it all hung an air of unreality.

He lifted the knocker, and it creaked up stiffly, as if it had never
before been used. He let it fall, and it startled him with its booming
loudness. He thought he heard steps within; the door remained closed.
Again Rainsford lifted the heavy knocker, and let it fall. The door
opened then--opened as suddenly as if it were on a spring--and Rainsford
stood blinking in the river of glaring gold light that poured out. The
first thing Rainsford's eyes discerned was the largest man Rainsford had
ever seen--a gigantic creature, solidly made and black bearded to the
waist. In his hand the man held a long-barreled revolver, and he was
pointing it straight at Rainsford's heart.

Out of the snarl of beard two small eyes regarded Rainsford.

"Don't be alarmed," said Rainsford, with a smile which he hoped was
disarming. "I'm no robber. I fell off a yacht. My name is Sanger
Rainsford of New York City."

The menacing look in the eyes did not change. The revolver pointing as
rigidly as if the giant were a statue. He gave no sign that he
understood Rainsford's words, or that he had even heard them. He was
dressed in uniform--a black uniform trimmed with gray astrakhan.

"I'm Sanger Rainsford of New York," Rainsford began again. "I fell off a
yacht. I am hungry." 

The man's only answer was to raise with his thumb the hammer of his
revolver. Then Rainsford saw the man's free hand go to his forehead in a
military salute, and he saw him click his heels together and stand at
attention. Another man was coming down the broad marble steps, an erect,
slender man in evening clothes. He advanced to Rainsford and held out
his hand.

In a cultivated voice marked by a slight accent that gave it added
precision and deliberateness, he said, "It is a very great pleasure and
honor to welcome Mr. Sanger Rainsford, the celebrated hunter, to my home."

Automatically Rainsford shook the man's hand.

"I've read your book about hunting snow leopards in Tibet, you see,"
explained the man. "I am General Zaroff."

Rainsford's first impression was that the man was singularly handsome;
his second was that there was an original, almost bizarre quality about
the general's face. He was a tall man past middle age, for his hair was
a vivid white; but his thick eyebrows and pointed military mustache were
as black as the night from which Rainsford had come. His eyes, too, were
black and very bright. He had high cheekbones, a sharpcut nose, a spare,
dark face--the face of a man used to giving orders, the face of an
aristocrat. Turning to the giant in uniform, the general made a sign.
The giant put away his pistol, saluted, withdrew.

"Ivan is an incredibly strong fellow," remarked the general, "but he has
the misfortune to be deaf and dumb. A simple fellow, but, I'm afraid,
like all his race, a bit of a savage."

"Is he Russian?"

"He is a Cossack," said the general, and his smile showed red lips and
pointed teeth. "So am I."

"Come," he said, "we shouldn't be chatting here. We can talk later. Now
you want clothes, food, rest. You shall have them. This is a
most-restful spot."

Ivan had reappeared, and the general spoke to him with lips that moved
but gave forth no sound.

"Follow Ivan, if you please, Mr. Rainsford," said the general. "I was
about to have my dinner when you came. I'll wait for you. You'll find
that my clothes will fit you, I think."

It was to a huge, beam-ceilinged bedroom with a canopied bed big enough
for six men that Rainsford followed the silent giant. Ivan laid out an
evening suit, and Rainsford, as he put it on, noticed that it came from
a London tailor who ordinarily cut and sewed for none below the rank of
duke.

The dining room to which Ivan conducted him was in many ways remarkable.
There was a medieval magnificence about it; it suggested a baronial hall
of feudal times with its oaken panels, its high ceiling, its vast
refectory tables where twoscore men could sit down to eat. About the
hall were mounted heads of many animals--lions, tigers, elephants,
moose, bears; larger or more perfect specimens Rainsford had never seen.
At the great table the general was sitting, alone.

"You'll have a cocktail, Mr. Rainsford," he suggested. The cocktail was
surpassingly good; and, Rainsford noted, the table apointments were of
the finest--the linen, the crystal, the silver, the china.

They were eating /borsch/, the rich, red soup with whipped cream so dear
to Russian palates. Half apologetically General Zaroff said, "We do our
best to preserve the amenities of civilization here. Please forgive any
lapses. We are well off the beaten track, you know. Do you think the
champagne has suffered from its long ocean trip?"

"Not in the least," declared Rainsford. He was finding the general a
most thoughtful and affable host, a true cosmopolite. But there was one
small trait of .the general's that made Rainsford uncomfortable.
Whenever he looked up from his plate he found the general studying him,
appraising him narrowly.

"Perhaps," said General Zaroff, "you were surprised that I recognized
your name. You see, I read all books on hunting published in English,
French, and Russian. I have but one passion in my life, Mr. Rains. ford,
and it is the hunt."

"You have some wonderful heads here," said Rainsford as he ate a
particularly well-cooked filet mignon. "That Cape buffalo is the
largest I ever saw."

"Oh, that fellow. Yes, he was a monster."

"Did he charge you?"

"Hurled me against a tree," said the general. "Fractured my skull. But I
got the brute."

"I've always thought," said Rains{ord, "that the Cape buffalo is the
most dangerous of all big game."

For a moment the general did not reply; he was smiling his curious
red-lipped smile. Then he said slowly, "No. You are wrong, sir. The Cape
buffalo is not the most dangerous big game." He sipped his wine. "Here
in my preserve on this island," he said in the same slow tone, "I hunt
more dangerous game."

Rainsford expressed his surprise. "Is there big game on this island?"

The general nodded. "The biggest."

"Really?"

"Oh, it isn't here naturally, of course. I have to stock the island."

"What have you imported, general?" Rainsford asked. "Tigers?"

The general smiled. "No," he said. "Hunting tigers ceased to interest me
some years ago. I exhausted their possibilities, you see. No thrill left
in tigers, no real danger. I live for danger, Mr. Rainsford."

The general took from his pocket a gold cigarette case and offered his
guest a long black cigarette with a silver tip; it was perfumed and gave
off a smell like incense.

"We will have some capital hunting, you and I," said the general. "I
shall be most glad to have your society."

"But what game--" began Rainsford.

"I'll tell you," said the general. "You will be amused, I know. I think
I may say, in all modesty, that I have done a rare thing. I have
invented a new sensation. May I pour you another glass of port?"

"Thank you, general."

The general filled both glasses, and said, "God makes some men poets.
Some He makes kings, some beggars. Me He made a hunter. My hand was made
for the trigger, my father said. He was a very rich man with a quarter
of a million acres in the Crimea, and he was an ardent sportsman. When I
was only five years old he gave me a little gun, specially made in
Moscow for me, to shoot sparrows with. When I shot some of his prize
turkeys with it, he did not punish me; he complimented me on my
marksmanship. I killed my first bear in the Caucasus when I was ten. My
whole life has been one prolonged hunt. I went into the army--it was
expected of noblemen's sons--and for a time commanded a division of
Cossack cavalry, but my real interest was always the hunt. I have hunted
every kind of game in every land. It would be impossible for me to tell
you how many animals I have killed."

The general puffed at his cigarette.

"After the debacle in Russia I left the country, for it was imprudent
for an officer of the Czar to stay there. Many noble Russians lost
everything. I, luckily, had invested heavily in American securities, so
I shall never have to open a tearoom in Monte Carlo or drive a taxi in
Paris. Naturally, I continued to hunt--grizzliest in your Rockies,
crocodiles in the Ganges, rhinoceroses in East Africa. It was in Africa
that the Cape buffalo hit me and laid me up for six months. As soon as I
recovered I started for the Amazon to hunt jaguars, for I had heard they
were unusually cunning. They weren't." The Cossack sighed. "They were no
match at all for a hunter with his wits about him, and a high-powered
rifle. I was bitterly disappointed. I was lying in my tent with a
splitting headache one night when a terrible thought pushed its way into
my mind. Hunting was beginning to bore me! And hunting, remember, had
been my life. I have heard that in America businessmen often go to
pieces when they give up the business that has been their life." 

"Yes, that's so," said Rainsford.

The general smiled. "I had no wish to go to pieces," he said. "I must do
something. Now, mine is an analytical mind, Mr. Rainsford. Doubtless
that is why I enjoy the problems of the chase."

"No doubt, General Zaroff."

"So," continued the general, "I asked myself why the hunt no longer
fascinated me. You are much younger than I am, Mr. Rainsford, and have
not hunted as much, but you perhaps can guess the answer."

"What was it?"

"Simply this: hunting had ceased to be what you call `a sporting
proposition.' It had become too easy. I always got my quarry. Always.
There is no greater bore than perfection."

The general lit a fresh cigarette.

"No animal had a chance with me any more. That is no boast; it is a
mathematical certainty. The animal had nothing but his legs and his
instinct. Instinct is no match for reason. When I thought of this it was
a tragic moment for me, I can tell you."

Rainsford leaned across the table, absorbed in what his host was saying.

"It came to me as an inspiration what I must do," the general went on. 

"And that was?"

The general smiled the quiet smile of one who has faced an obstacle and
surmounted it with success. "I had to invent a new animal to hunt," he said.

"A new animal? You're joking." 

"Not at all," said the general. "I never
joke about hunting. I needed a new animal. I found one. So I bought this
island built this house, and here I do my hunting. The island is perfect
for my purposes--there are jungles with a maze of traits in them, hills,
swamps--"

"But the animal, General Zaroff?"

"Oh," said the general, "it supplies me with the most exciting hunting
in the world. No other hunting compares with it for an instant. Every
day I hunt, and I never grow bored now, for I have a quarry with which I
can match my wits."

Rainsford's bewilderment showed in his face.

"I wanted the ideal animal to hunt," explained the general. "So I said,
`What are the attributes of an ideal quarry?' And the answer was, of
course, `It must have courage, cunning, and, above all, it must be able
to reason."'

"But no animal can reason," objected Rainsford.

"My dear fellow," said the general, "there is one that can."

"But you can't mean--" gasped Rainsford.

"And why not?"

"I can't believe you are serious, General Zaroff. This is a grisly joke."

"Why should I not be serious? I am speaking of hunting."

"Hunting? Great Guns, General Zaroff, what you speak of is murder."

The general laughed with entire good nature. He regarded Rainsford
quizzically. "I refuse to believe that so modern and civilized a young
man as you seem to be harbors romantic ideas about the value of human
life. Surely your experiences in the war--"

"Did not make me condone cold-blooded murder," finished Rainsford stiffly.

Laughter shook the general. "How extraordinarily droll you are!" he
said. "One does not expect nowadays to find a young man of the educated
class, even in America, with such a naive, and, if I may say so,
mid-Victorian point of view. It's like finding a snuffbox in a
limousine. Ah, well, doubtless you had Puritan ancestors. So many
Americans appear to have had. I'll wager you'll forget your notions when
you go hunting with me. You've a genuine new thrill in store for you,
Mr. Rainsford."

"Thank you, I'm a hunter, not a murderer."

"Dear me," said the general, quite unruffled, "again that unpleasant
word. But I think I can show you that your scruples are quite ill founded."

"Yes?"

"Life is for the strong, to be lived by the strong, and, if needs be,
taken by the strong. The weak of the world were put here to give the
strong pleasure. I am strong. Why should I not use my gift? If I wish to
hunt, why should I not? I hunt the scum of the earth: sailors from tramp
ships--lassars, blacks, Chinese, whites, mongrels--a thoroughbred horse
or hound is worth more than a score of them."

"But they are men," said Rainsford hotly.

"Precisely," said the general. "That is why I use them. It gives me
pleasure. They can reason, after a fashion. So they are dangerous."

"But where do you get them?"

The general's left eyelid fluttered down in a wink. "This island is
called Ship Trap," he answered. "Sometimes an angry god of the high seas
sends them to me. Sometimes, when Providence is not so kind, I help
Providence a bit. Come to the window with me."

Rainsford went to the window and looked out toward the sea.